[ Expletive ]
[ Applause ]
[ Music ]
[Music]
Okay, okay, and we're live. Georgie DeKalb, Ray Peet. Guys, thank you so much for joining us today.
Thank you, Georgie. Thank you, Ray. And we're just going to rifle through a bunch of questions,
but before we do that, how are you, Ray?
Very good.
Yeah. You said the weather had gotten a little bit sunnier in Eugene, so that's always a positive.
It's going to be in the hundreds, over a hundred this weekend.
And then how do you, do you go sit in the sun or what do you do?
I'm not going to stay inside all day tomorrow, at least. We open the door at about 1am when it
cools off, blow in some cooler air, and then close it up for the day. The house is concrete, so it
holds its temperature for about a day.
And blocking that 5G as well.
Yeah, a little bit.
Okay. And then Georgie, how are you, sir?
I really liked your elevator music that you put at the start of the show. It was very soothing.
Did you hear it through my headphones?
No, I heard the music. Was I not supposed to hear it?
Oh, no, you weren't. Okay. That's a little bit weird. Ray, did you hear the music too?
Yeah.
Oh, okay. Weird. Okay.
I thought it was kind of interesting. You tried to hold a conversation
over this really loud music and I thought, wow, that must be a new feature.
In-conference call music.
That's one of the reasons we're upgrading equipment, because when I'm talking to you guys
before the show, I'm always hearing music and it's obnoxious. Okay, enough of that. This show,
like I said, I told you guys before, I don't feel like it's for me or necessarily per se,
Georgie, although Ray and Georgie, you guys' interfacing and bouncing ideas off each other is
I think what the people are here to listen to.
Okay. So I'm just going to go through these questions and read them. And Ray, some of this
stuff is going to be redundant and answer as much or as little as you want for all of this. So our
first one is from Drew F. And he says, "Trestosterone/MENT is not 5-alpha reduced,
but bodybuilders and some post-finasteride sufferers experience benefits in terms of mood,
animalism, et cetera. Is androgen receptor agonism a likely explanation for the effects?
It is a much stronger androgen than testosterone."
Which reduced testosterone is it?
Georgie, do you know what this is?
Yes, I know. It's a new steroid. It's 7-alpha-methylated version of nendrolone,
which is a carbon-18 steroid of the estrein family. So it was...
I'm always suspicious when they add a methyl group.
Yes, it's actually very hepatotoxic. As you know, Ray, methyl groups at position 17,
7, and potentially others, they've all been proven to have severe hepatotoxicity.
But bodybuilders like it because I guess they don't value their liver that much, but also
it's the steroid that can achieve the same with lower doses. And they think it's worth it instead
of abusing the testosterone in higher dosages. That steroid was developed as a male contraceptive
candidate. And I think it's still in clinical trials for that. But even the company that
developed it and is running the clinical trials got discouraged given the hepatotoxicity.
Ray, do you want to clarify the methyl group? So adding a methyl group to a steroid is risky,
you said?
Yeah, it just sends it off on unknown pathways. The liver never had to deal with such things.
And so I think it's extremely unpredictable and dangerous.
Good stuff. And then we've talked about post-finasteride a bunch, so I don't want to
kind of get into that again.
I think his main question was, "Is activation of the androgen receptor
a plausible explanation of the antidepressant and general feelings of well-being
from using these androgenic steroids?"
I think it's plausible.
Great stuff. Thank you for that, guys. Okay, Marcel, this is just kind of a statement.
Thank you, Danny, for your contributions to the community. You are a big reason why Ray's work,
wealth of knowledge is available to us. Thank you so much, Georgie, for his continuing curiosity
and dedicating his life's work towards advancements in this space. I hope this helps.
Thank you, Marcel. I sincerely appreciate that. Thank you to Ray for being
humble inspiration for all things. Andrew Wallace says, "What would you do if you had
Crohn's? What would be your protocol?"
Me?
Ray, I guess I'm just asking you, and then Georgie can chime in at any point.
Pretty much what I do anyway. Assume the intestine is my contact with the world,
and I have to protect it, and so I don't want to offend it in any way.
And Crohn's disease is a seriously offended intestine.
And from what I've read, you know, it seems like you've dealt with a lot of, like, serious
intestinal things over the years, as one would in this environment. And so it's not like you're
speaking from reading—I know you read, obviously, a lot, but you're speaking from personal
experience, is that right? Yeah, starting as a baby with migraines,
which recurred every time I would do certain things wrong, up until my mid-40s. I would feel
the last one, for example, was when I was visiting in San Francisco and didn't realize
that they had fluoridated water, and I would occasionally drink some of that water,
and I was taking Sinoplus or Sino-Mal orally, and within two or three days, I had a tremendous
migraine, and that started me thinking about it, and fluoride can totally wipe out the activity of
T3 if it happens to be present in your stomach and the T3 is exposed to it.
Amazing stuff. Okay, so obviously— I have a question in regards to Crohn's disease.
Henry, have you seen some of the more recent studies claiming that Crohn's disease may be caused
by a type of mycobacteria, which is known to cause Crohn's disease in animals,
and now they're saying the same thing may be true in humans?
Yeah, but the inflammation and poor digestion set up the conditions for such things to
accumulate and multiply. So basically, making sure that you don't irritate your intestine more
than absolutely necessary is at the basis of a protocol for keeping—
Yeah, you can find the mycoplasm in just about any sick person.
It's sort of opportunistic and looks for a sort of place to live.
So maybe this antibiotic therapy that they're now trying in Europe for this,
potentially, they're treating it as a bacteria infection, but it's really
destroying the microbiome and keeping the intestine sterile, which reduces the inflammation.
Not necessarily, it's not only one bacteria, it's just this is helping because it's reducing the
amount of bacteria in the intestine anyways.
Yeah, just taking a series of penicillin doses or eating raw carrots, for example,
can have very similar effects. In both rats and people, it turns out that anything that
cleans up your intestine will lower your cortisol and estrogen and increase your progesterone,
just because the intestine is such a chronic drain and source of stress.
In regards to the carrot salad and in general fiber,
what are your thoughts on supplementing with pure cellulose if one could find a pure source?
It would be interesting. They used to sell basically a cellulose tablet for weight loss.
I've never tried one, but it seemed like a good idea because cellulose doesn't have the
estrogen-promoting symptoms that a lot of other fibers do.
The reason I'm mentioning this is I was reading some studies. They're using various cellulose
esters as binders for drugs for developing pharmaceutical drugs. Some of these esters,
like for example, ethyl cellulose, showed remarkable antibacterial effects in animals
and reduced inflammation. So I thought maybe it's because it's clearing out their intestines somehow.
Oh yeah, it was a very popular laxative effect as well as weight loss.
Was this in the past, like in the 60s or 70s?
I used to see the ads for it on TV as recently as 1986, I think it was.
Interesting, very interesting.
Speaking of cortisol, this one's from New Health and they say good cortisol
blocker supplements for weight loss. What is your thoughts on that, Ray?
What blocker?
Like a cortisol blocker.
Progesterone and pregnenolone are the best ones I know of.
But working at the pituitary level, a lot of things, sugar, aspirin, probably sodium,
anything that stabilizes your blood sugar and metabolism, reduces inflammation, will
defend you against cortisol.
Thanks for that. New Health says, "There's now a spin-off of the Ray Peet community with
Morley Robbins ideas, aka ceruloplasmin. Would you be willing to do a show on this
from a Ray Peet perspective?" I think these were when they originally thought that Georgie and I
were just going to do a Q&A. So Ray, what are your thoughts on ceruloplasmin? It's an acute
phase reactant. So do you want to be increasing ceruloplasmin? Is that a goal of a diet or
lifestyle or supplement routine?
Not my goal.
Hey, do you want to comment on Morley Robbins? Do you know who that is? Are you familiar
with their work?
No, no.
Okay.
I have a question. So if somebody has low ceruloplasmin, some of the studies claim that
this is a sign of low thyroid function. In a situation like that, considering that ceruloplasmin
apparently takes care of the copper and makes sure it doesn't become toxic to the various organs,
would somebody be potentially at risk if they have low ceruloplasmin and low thyroid?
Would they be at risk when eating high copper foods like liver and shellfish?
I think so. Did you ever read Carl Pfeiffer's books? I think he caused himself to lose pigment
by being so obsessive about keeping copper down. He was very concentrated on the risk of too much
copper, probably having seen some people with ceruloplasm deficiency.
Anne Louise Gittleman, Andy Cutler, and Carl Hoffer or Pfeiffer or whatever, they were all
about copper toxicity being this humongous problem. It seems like from reading your work
that they were just misled in what they thought was going on.
Yeah. He took a little capsule of flowers of sulfur every day for many, many years,
and he had no trace of skin or hair pigment left.
Okay, great stuff. Okay, this one's from Joseph, and he says, "Can you speak about nitric oxide
and the word on the street that it's good for Cialis or Viagra, so that it works like those
substances?" I'm afraid there is quite a bit of overlap. As soon as nitric oxide was discovered
to be produced in the body, they were seeing its involvement in everything degenerative and
harmful. Then when Viagra came on the market, suddenly for about five or six years, everything
published was how great nitric oxide is. It prevents hypertension and protects against
everything. Thousands of articles came out suddenly reversing it from a dangerous free radical
to a cure-all. Then about 10 or 15 years ago, there was a gradual return to sanity and
realizing that it's one of the very central things to degeneration, aging, the follow-up of trauma,
estrogen interactions, everything stress-related and degeneration-related involves
the pro-inflammatory effect of ethanol. Two follow-up questions, he says,
"Is aspirin safe to take every day, and also is lactose-free milk good?"
It doesn't taste very good, but I think it's safe enough. It probably doesn't let you absorb
nutrients quite as well as natural lactose-containing milk, but I don't think it's
harmful. "And then your thoughts on using aspirin every day?"
When I had a good supply, I was taking it every day very consistently, but sometimes I forget to
take it when it isn't in a convenient form, like some of it is powdered so fine it's choking
when you try to take it just on your tongue.
Georgie, interrupt me at any time. Okay, this one's a little bit long, so bear with me for a
second. "I've been trying to have a baby for more than a year, but I have azuspermia, confirmed after
three semen analyses and undetectable levels of sperm after a testicular ultrasound. They found a
small varicocele in both testicles. I've been taking 7 to 8 mg of extremistain for three weeks.
For how much longer is it safe to take?" So this is the first question. "Will continued
extremistain use help me fix the varicocele as well as the azuspermia?"
What's she taking?
Exemistain. It's a steroidal aromatase inhibitor.
I'll just finish up this question. There's two more sentences here, and we can go through it.
"If exemistain doesn't fix the azuspermia, what else can I do? I'd like to avoid having
a varicocele ectomy or even worse, surgical sperm extraction from IVF. After three weeks
of exemistain, my total testosterone went from 400 to 756. Exemistain has also increased my FSH
and LH and are now above standard range. I thought FSH and LH would go down as testosterone goes up."
So were there bits of that question that you have comments on, Ray?
Yeah, I think you can get a safer inhibition of aromatase using aspirin, progesterone,
completely safe things. Thyroid is very important, but just with aspirin,
progesterone and thyroid, you can get your ratio back, testosterone, pregnenolone.
And estrogen down and supplementing pregnenolone and thyroxine historically
was very effective for correcting infertility and enlivening inactive sperms.
And so the azuspermia, if the cholesterol is high and the person wasn't taking enough thyroid,
that would be a result of that with high estrogen?
Yeah, the thyroid and pregnenolone make their energy producing system revive.
Great stuff. Thanks for that. Okay, Peggy says, "Question for the Q&A. Thoughts on ivermectin for
COVID, prophylaxis, and any alternative as it is almost impossible to get a prescription for it.
Thank you." Prophylaxis suggests you would be taking
it some everyday for an indefinite time until you didn't get the infection. And the normal use of it
is a very short course. And about one person in a thousand in the studies of using it to treat
parasites will show signs of brain damage. And I don't think it's a good idea to take maybe
thousands of daily doses, even a moderate amount of something that
once in a while is known to cause brain damage.
There was some podcast that was talking about ivermectin and a bunch of people emailed me about
it the exact same time. Again, George, you interrupted any time. Okay, so this person says-
I can give a few more, I mean, based on the studies that recently came out. Methylene blue,
a well-known antiviral, at least four studies came out in the last month saying it can both prevent
and treat COVID-19. Of course, there's no medical advice, but that's what the study said.
Instead of hydroxychloroquine, you can try plain old quinine. My personal favorite,
hydroxychloroquine is just a patented, more liver toxic version of quinine.
Naringenin, also a few good studies. So drinking orange juice should have similar effect than
taking the isolated version. And aspirin, vitamin C and vitamin D, I mean, all of these now have
quite a few studies behind them. Unfortunately, everything is being censored by mainstream media,
so you have to go to PubMed to find them. But I wouldn't say- Ivermectin would be one of the last
things I would try considering all the other safer alternatives that are out there. Cyproheptadine,
famotidine, which is an acid blocker, but apparently is also a potent anti-serotonin
agent as well. Really, I don't know where the ivermectin craze is coming from. Maybe that's
the only thing that hit the mainstream news, but tons of other chemicals, safer and cheaper and
available over the counter that can do just as well, if not better, than ivermectin with
fewer side effects. And vitamin D is very effective. There was a study done in Spain in a
hospital which was withdrawn after a lot of doctors wrote ignorant letters to the publisher.
For some reason, the editor caved in and had it withdrawn, but it was very clear that they gave,
I think it was 6,000 units, something like that, per day. Maybe it was 8,000 first dose and then
6,000 units a day to people who were admitted to hospital intensive care, very sick with COVID.
Simply, that treatment with vitamin D reduced mortality by about 60%. Just an absolutely
clear difference, but the readers who didn't like vitamin D quibbled that they hadn't done
statistics quite right, but you can't miss a 60% disappearance of dead patients.
I would like to see a doctor argue that 60% more live people is statistically insignificant.
Very stupid people who are complaining.
Shout out to the Kate Deering and Kitty Blumfield podcast you did with them. I thought it was like
a tour de force and you at least, I thought you cleared up every single anti-vitamin D argument
that exists on the internet right now. I was very thankful for that podcast. I think you can type in
Kitty Blumfield, a win at life podcast, vitamin D, Ray Peet, and a person can find it instantaneously.
Hi, Danny. Hi, Georgie. Hi, Ray Peet. Many thanks for the show. Please keep going. I have one
question. My seven-year-old daughter has hypothyroid symptoms, low energy, weight gain,
digestive problems. Her TSH is between four and five and her free T4 is around 12. Doctors here
don't test for other markers, unfortunately. Doctor says everything is okay and no need to worry.
Do you have any suggestions what we can do? Preferably nutritional plus lifestyle. Thanks
again, Timo. P.S. I'm lucky you take my question. Okay. What do you think about that?
Very important to get the TSH down. The TSH at that level itself is causing symptoms,
pro-inflammatory symptoms, and it's going to disturb her puberty development,
all kinds of development. The history of that bizarre attitude towards TSH,
I think it's on my website, 50 Years of Fraud is part of the title,
that there's just no scientific basis for relying on TSH, especially at such very high levels as
five. And just my limited understanding of things of reading through hypothyroidism,
the unsuspected illness, like he wrote a talk about childhood hypothyroidism, and it's not
crazy to investigate a thyroid supplement for a child, right?
Oh, not at all. Sometimes it has to start at a very young age. It's increasingly important around
seven or eight or nine when the first signs of puberty are coming on because the estrogen is
going to slow down the thyroid function. Great stuff. Okay. This one's from JV Marketing,
and they say, "Hi guys. I recently started taking thyroid 12.5 micrograms of T3 and 37.5
micrograms of T4. I am day three into this and my waking temperature has been slightly lower than
usual. Is it normal for a slight dip in temperature before improvements are made? Could this be a
nutritional deficiency?" Very low thyroid people will have, especially during the night,
high cortisol and adrenaline usually. And you should check your pulse at the same time
when you wake up along with the temperature. And then after having a breakfast with, for example,
a lot of orange juice, the stress hormones are going to be decreased when you get your
glucose level up. So the adrenaline goes down, the cortisol will go down. Both of those have
kept your temperature, both of them, and pulse rate kept up by high adrenaline during the night.
And so by which of those changes the most, you can tell what night stress was responsible for them.
And when you get your thyroid gradually improving your carbon dioxide production and
stabilizing your glycogen stores, your nocturnal stress goes down. And so you're
revealing the hypothyroid condition that was hidden under the stress hormones.
During daytime testing, people who are very hypothyroid, such as a five or six on the TSH level
have been very hyper and normal, not fat or edematous or sluggish or anything, but they were
found to have 30 to 40 times the daily output of adrenaline making up for the low thyroid production.
So it's pretty common to have extreme slowdown when you start on your thyroid. That's why it's
so important to keep a chart marked off for at least two or three weeks showing
your temperature and pulse rate both on the same chart so that you can draw a line where it should
with an ideal starting dose of thyroid, you should see the lines rising steadily towards the
goal of pulse rate and temperature at the end of two or three weeks.
But if at first you see the numbers going down, that's evidence that you're getting out of the
stress. Great stuff. Thank you for that, Ray. Okay. This one's from Jean, mega super supporter
of the show. And she says, I wanted a lot of these people are mega super supporters, but I wanted to
ask and hear more about why people who are vaccinated are getting colds and flus right now.
There seems to be a lot of discussion in my neighborhood that people are out sick at work
and feeling flu/cold symptoms, even though it's extremely warm here.
The purpose of any vaccine is to create a systemic inflammation. And in general,
that weakens your overall immune system, even though it pumps up your specific antibodies,
the general inflammation is a weakness at least during the time you're having symptoms.
And unfortunately, sometimes for a much longer time, such as the year after people had an
influenza vaccination, their rate of coronavirus infection was greatly increased 50 or 60% more
likely to get infected by a different virus because they were protected against influenza virus.
So the idea, the officials actually say stupid things like get vaccinated. It'll make you healthy.
Thanks for that. And we'll take a break here, Ray, like, I don't know, like maybe 20 minutes or so,
because I know this, I don't give you like a lobotomy from this, ask you a hundred questions.
But I know a question about the vaccines. Is there any truth to saying that basically
the vaccines are sacrificing general immunity in order to boost specific resistance to a very
specific virus, while at the same time making you vulnerable, just as you mentioned,
they also mentioned influenza and Corona, but I think this applies to any virus, right? If you
shift the immune response, protecting from only one virus, you're exposing yourself, becoming
more compromisable to all the other viruses. Yeah, there were, I think, 10 studies showing
that with influenza follow-up, but the whole doctrine going back to Ehrlich's time,
it's a drug industry centered theory of what immunity amounts to. Paul Ehrlich was selling
his patent drugs and he shared the Nobel prize with Metchnikoff, who was an embryologist
who saw immunity as the whole organism maintaining itself, a total inclusive concept of what
immunity or resistance is, where Ehrlich proposed a theory that was ideal for selling
magic bullet drugs. The concept of magic bullet was converted to the
antibody theory of immunity that your B cells produced a specific immunity.
So logically, if you don't have a specific drug for every conceivable disease,
then you're going to need a vaccine for every existing or possible disease, because
the antibody theory of immunity is really just a silver bullet, one drug to sell for one disease.
Great stuff. Okay, this one's from James B. and he says, "Question," okay, this kind of
trends on the first question we talked about. He says, "Question, if your lab rat was supplementing
with pregnenolone, progesterone, and DHE, and you had the task of building the most amount of muscle
while somewhat preserving your health, could you outline a potential stack you would use?
I was thinking about 50 milligrams of testosterone base along with 25 milligrams of masteron.
I know these aren't hepatoxic, but would you dissolve these into tocopherol and take sublingually
before swallowing for maximal effect? P.S., your thoughts on low-dose Trenblone base?"
Even with natural testosterone, I think people are generally getting overdosed.
Very healthy, very young man might produce four or five milligrams of testosterone per day,
and so one or two milligrams well-assimilated should give you a tremendous boost of virility
and muscle strength. With DHEA, the teenage production is 12 to 15 milligrams, and so
it goes steadily down with aging similar to testosterone, but by the time a person is 30
or 40, five milligrams will still bring them up to a normal level of DHEA. The
overdose is apparently the desired state.
I have a question about the amounts of steroids. Yes, a young, virile man will produce four to
five milligrams of testosterone, but they also clear estrogen much more effectively than an
older person, so their testosterone to estrogen ratio or testosterone to cortisol ratio is pretty
high. An older person basically tends to be overloaded with both estrogen and cortisol
while having their testosterone levels drop. So the four to five milligrams, yes, they will
potentially bring up the testosterone levels up to the levels of a young, virile man, but they won't
necessarily fix the issue with the high estrogen and high cortisol. So that person may not be
necessarily feeling the same anabolic or mood boosting or whatnot effects that a younger person
would get from such a dosage simply because their stress hormones are too high, and I think that
may be why older people and bodybuilders in general, they're overdosing these steroids simply
because they're not addressing the thyroid angle and they're trying to shut down their stress
hormones by simply over flooding them and overcrowding them with these androgens.
That's why that may be one reason why they're using such high doses.
For several reasons, thyroid is our basic anabolic hormone. It directly activates protein synthesis,
lowers cortisol and the breakdown of protein and inhibits the effective cortisol and inflammatory
things on aromatase. So it's aromatase and cortisol antagonist.
So basically an anabolic approach with steroids should always take into account thyroid, right?
Or at least some other option of blocking cortisol in a safe manner.
Yeah, as a basic anabolic substance, the muscles, if they're under stress or
enforced idleness, will cause the muscle to actually produce and secrete cortisol and estrogen.
And when they're properly activated with thyroid and activity, they will be a source of testosterone
and a sink for cortisol.
Okay, great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. Okay, so this one's from Craig. He says,
"Craig Doe, I've been diagnosed with severe sleep apnea induced by arterial
ablation. I'm on meds that make me feel terrible. Tried cardioversion, didn't work.
I'm 53, fit, use a CPAP. Any ideas how to get off meds? Thank you."
People who are using that CPAP are almost always hypothyroid and low in progesterone.
For many years, they've been curing sleep apnea with prothyroid things and progesterone.
Progesterone lowers the stress hormones, improves the depth of sleep, and maintains
regular breathing and prevents hyperventilation. The real problem in sleep apnea is cyclic
hyperventilation followed by cessation. When you go deficient in carbon dioxide,
your breathing stops and you could even die from respiratory arrest if you are producing so little
carbon dioxide. So thyroid and progesterone directly correct the problem. Acetazolamide
has been used, I think, for 50 or 60 years to treat sleep apnea. It indirectly raises your
carbon dioxide level and keeps stimulating your breathing through the night.
Amazing. Thank you for that, Ray. This next one is from…
I have something to add. Most drugs on the market currently for AFib, which is the
common name for atrial fibrillation, are blood thinners. The flagship drug known as Xarelto
was approved by the FDA with the FDA's knowledge that the clinical trials conducted in Mexico and
other Latin American countries were 100% fraudulent. There's a famous article by
the Slate magazine, which came out in, I think it was 2016 or 2017, where they did an exposé of how
FDA knew that the trials were fraudulent. Not simply deficient, but fraudulent. Data was made up
to support the approval of the drug. When Slate and other journalists tried to contact
FDA, basically FDA refused to comment on it and threatened the journalists that they will sue
them and impose a gag order if they continue walking around and talking how Xarelto is a
dangerous, potentially murderous drug. So I would try to get off that drug because there are many
other safer blood thinners. A subsequent trial was done outside of the United States. I forgot
where, but it compared aspirin to Xarelto and found aspirin to be more effective and safer.
So I think Xarelto may be causing a lot of these problems, especially with the lowering of carbon
dioxide. It's really not a safe drug. Wait, you're saying the pharmaceutical
companies are corrupt, Georgie? I'm saying the FDA is corrupt.
Okay. I had never heard that before. Okay. That is wild. Okay. Thank you for that, Georgie. Thank
you, Ray. Okay. This was from Mohammed and he says, "Question for Dr. Ray Peet. My mom is borderline
diabetic, removed thyroid and has pain in her feet that bothers her a lot. What can she do to treat
this?" What was her thyroid condition? I think she had it removed, he said.
Oh, well, the doctors likely prescribe thyroxine and in women, thyroxine
fails to be activated properly because of estrogen interfering with liver function,
which should account for about two-thirds of your active thyroid function. So
for most women, thyroxine being what doctors like to prescribe just isn't correcting the problem.
And so getting on a real thyroid supplement is essential when you've had the gland removed.
And maybe you feel confident in armor in the U.S. right now?
I haven't tried any armor in recent years, but I haven't heard any new bad things about it. For
several years, they were going back and forth, failing FDA tests and so on. But for several
years now, I haven't heard bad things about it. So it's the only glandular right now that I would
trust. But during the time that armor was being reformulated in the early 90s, I shifted to
the synthetics, first thyrol-R formulated by Armor to exactly imitate natural armor thyroid
and then Sinoplus, which exactly imitated the thyrol-R formula,
and made by the same company that makes Sino-Mal or Pure T3.
And so those have been very reliable now for at least 30 years.
Thank you for that amazing stuff. Okay, we're coming up on 45 minutes or so. Thank you, Ray.
Thank you, Georgie. I sincerely appreciate you guys making this show possible. Harrison, huge,
gigantic donation. Thank you so much, Harrison. Thank you. Make all this possible. Matthew T.,
also another extremely generous donation. Thank you, guys. And then we'll move on to these super
chats. Maybe we'll take a quick break here, Ray, and maybe we can talk about Progest-E for just a
millisecond. So 3,400 milligrams of progesterone per bottle dissolved in vitamin E. You can email
Keenogen@gmail.com, aka Catherine, and you can... She'll ship it extremely fast. She just shipped
me 12 bottles of it. It's sitting in my refrigerator right now. And Ray, do you want
to dip into your gigantic bag of positive progesterone stories and say anything about it?
Oh, no, nothing occurs to me right now.
Okay, one thing you said on the vitamin D with Kate Deering and Kitty was you didn't really
think of it like a hormone. It's just this generalized stabilizing factor in cells. And so
I think you said that before, but that resonated when you talked about it. That was like a...
The brain is a major source and goal of progesterone, and men have just as much in their
brain or should as women. And it's involved in the cell division process all the way up to
nerve and muscle function. Every conceivable thing in higher animals depends on progesterone.
Great stuff. Thank you for that. So Keenogen@gmail.com. You can message Catherine,
and she's very nice, and she'll send out the progesterone very quickly. So
thanks to Catherine. Thanks to Keenogen. Okay, Nick P174 just donates $10. Thank you for that,
Nick. RisingStronger4999 says, "For Dr. Pete, I've heard you mention milk and fruit as the
cosmic diet and wonder if there is an ethical component to how you view and structure your
nutrition. Thanks to the three of you." Yeah, it has to do with cosmic entropy, actually.
It's why the whole energy concept of existence involves the
cephalization process in all animate beings, and you can trace those processes of increasing
consciousness and brain development through the physics of the universe. It all has to do with
maintaining order, and it happens that milk and fruits are the simplest and
most order-preserving way to integrate your life with the cosmos.
I love it. Thanks for that, Ray. Okay, this one's from Umar, and they say, "Does a benign tumor have
a similar metabolism to a cancerous one? I have had a benign osteochondrodroma on my upper femur
since childhood. What ways/supplementing can help in removing it? Thank you all."
If it's quiescent, not inflamed or growing, no, it doesn't have the cancer metabolism. It's
just a structural defect, but any inflammation, according to the degree of the inflammation,
is going to start having the cancer metabolism.
Great stuff. Thanks, Dr. Vian. I wanted to mention,
rubbing progesterone on it, since it's simply a fibrotic structure, may help a lot. There are some
older studies that seem to have stopped around the '70s that kept calling progesterone the most
potent anti-fibrotic chemical known to man, and they suddenly stopped. I guess the pharmaceutical
industry got involved, but they had success in animal studies by applying progesterone topically
or subcutaneously and managing to dissolve multiple metastases of much worse and malignant tumors.
I don't see a reason why it couldn't be applied in this case as well.
Yes, the anti-fibrotic effect I've seen examples of hundreds of times. I think the reason they
stopped talking about that effect is that the mechanism involves interfering with estrogens,
pro-fibrotic effect activating nitric oxide and serotonin. That group of inflammatory
things, estrogen, nitric oxide, and serotonin, are all blocked by progesterone, and those are the
degenerative pro-fibrotic substances.
Great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. This one's from James. He says, "Hi, guys. I've had man boobs
for years, which recently developed into gynecomastia, but only on my left breast.
Is there a way to reverse this? Thank you."
Just today, I got an email saying that his chest fat and gynecomastia regressed thoroughly
from taking quite a bit of progesterone, but I think it's essential to
use vitamin D and thyroid and all of the anti-aromatase
substances, including some aspirin, to keep it under control.
Amazing. Great stuff. This one's from another James. They say, "When approximately did the
United States transform from a constitutional republic into an empire, or was the USA always
set up to be one from the beginning?" Well, the spreading from the colonies across the continent,
taking the western United States away from Mexico and then following that up with
war against Spain to take the Philippines and Cuba, the imperial mentality goes back
almost to the beginning, but the 20th century has been steady imperialism with the
banana republics being kept in line with sending battleships every year so they would
threaten another country in the hemisphere. There was a temporary let up with FDR's good
neighbor policy. We're as good as we are. Ray, are you still there? I just actually—
Yeah, he's there.
Okay, I just lost everything. Okay, we're back. Sorry about that. Go ahead, Ray. Sorry.
It has just grown in its intensity. Starting right at FDR's death, policies were absolutely
180 degrees reversed where he had planned a post-war anti-imperialist policy.
He had a conference with Wendell Willkie. They agreed that whichever party won after his term was
up would follow the decolonization anti-imperialist world policy, but it happens that Willkie got a
cold and died at a very young age. Then just before Roosevelt could find out that Alan Dulles
was committing treason and aligning himself with the German intelligence system to take over the
world, Roosevelt died just before he could learn that fact, and so immediately with his death,
the Dulles faction took over with a single-minded imperialism
that has been followed steadily.
Great stuff. Thanks for that. I'm getting told that the audio is a little bit wonky,
but I guess we're just going to have to keep going here. I don't know what's wrong. This
is why we're trying to buy new equipment. Okay, where was I here? Okay, Nick says, "Hey guys,
say a guy lost the ability to ejaculate and then also slowly over a period of a couple years
was also basically unable to get an erection. What things would be the most important to look into?"
Having blood tests would be very useful to see what your cortisol and estrogen,
DHEA, progesterone and thyroid, and testosterone are doing.
I want to add to that that sometimes doctors will just test the testosterone, but several
large human studies show that you can have erectile dysfunction and ejaculatory problems
and fertility problems even in men with normal levels of testosterone and DHEA,
as long as either prolactin or estradiol are either elevated or in the top 25th percentile
of the "normal" range, which we know is not really normal.
Great stuff, guys. Thank you. Okay, this one's another from Nick, and he says, "My heart rate
is in the low 50s while sitting, but while standing and also resting, it's in the 80s.
Should the sitting be close to the 80s causes?"
I think it should be higher than that unless there's some reason. If you have a really big
heart, it can pump a lot of blood with the pulses as low as 50, but ordinarily, you aren't pumping
enough blood to keep things in very good health if it's running that slow.
And that would just be a general sign of hypothyroidism, right?
I think so.
Great stuff. Okay, Space 99 Yak says, "Is the herb Bouttia superba root good for DHT?"
I've never heard of it.
Any thoughts, George?
I have to look it up. I've heard of the herb, but I don't know through what mechanism it would be
good for DHT. I know nettle root is actually a drug in Germany, and they're using it to treat
prostate problems. And they kept saying for years that, "Oh, it's because it lowers the androgens."
And then it turned out it actually contains aromatase inhibitors and is raising DHT instead
of lowering it.
Great stuff. Okay, this one's from Gazamongo, and they say, "Can the thyroid be damaged with
exogenous T3? Is the feedback loop shutting the thyroid down activated by a certain amount daily
or per dose? I.e., could small doses be additive rather than a replacement?"
If you get as much thyroid function as you need, the gland should adjust itself. It's always
responsive to signals such as adrenaline and TSH. You can shut the TSH down completely,
and then if you stop shutting it down with the large doses, it pops back very quickly.
I've seen my own thyroid gland when I was taking 50 micrograms of T3 per day. I developed
holes about as big as my index finger on each side of my Adam's apple. Between that and the
muscles. So I stopped taking the T3 for just a day or two, and immediately within 24 hours,
my neck had leveled out. The gland swells and shrinks according to need.
So a lot of doctors will talk about suppressing or damaging your thyroid gland by supplementing
because their reasoning from what happens to your adrenals or testicles if you overdose
on one of the hormones, high cortisol or glucocorticoid use can cause your adrenals to
shrink to the point that if you suddenly stop the supplement, you might die from the absence of
adrenal production. But the adrenals will gradually, over about a month, recover if you
are well-nourished after you've totally suppressed them with too much cortisol.
The thyroid gland only takes a day or so to completely recover.
Thanks for that, Ray. Kana?
I have a question about pregnenolone and the adrenals. As you know, Ray, the older studies
in the early 20th century showed that when you give people under stress pregnenolone,
it decreases their output of 17-kilo steroids. Isn't that a sign of potential partial adrenal
suppression by pregnenolone, or is it simply giving them a break?
I think it's supplying whatever function they were producing so they aren't needed. In the study of
rats, they measured their cortisol production and other hormones and found a normal variation.
Most of them weren't normal. A few were hyperproducers of cortisol, but they gave them,
I think it was 10 grams, injected a stomach full of powdered pregnenolone and then studied their
hormones. There were no endocrine changes that they could detect except in those which had been
under stress with high cortisol production. Their cortisol went down to normal, receiving those
gigantic doses of pregnenolone. So the person that's under a lot of stress, pregnenolone
doesn't just have an anti-cortisol effect, but it also gives the adrenals what they need,
gives the adrenals a break, I guess, for lack of a better word.
Yeah, the adrenals and gonads are potentially self-regulating. The pituitary is just
there for an additional boost. When Han Selye was experimenting with removing adrenals,
he found that after the tissue-stored steroids had dissipated, just a moderate amount of stress
would kill the animals because they didn't have the adrenal resilience to meet the stress.
But where the ordinary rat would die from a little bit of a stressful situation, he noticed that the
pregnant rats didn't even notice, had no ill effects from an increased adaptive stress.
And so he experimented removing the adrenals and supplementing progesterone, and they lived
a normal lifespan with no adrenal hormones at all. Progesterone supplement totally replaced
all of the adrenal hormones, aldosterone and cortisol in particular.
Have you seen any studies that discuss the effects of pregnenolone specifically on the
pituitary? I know there are a lot of studies by Selye and others.
Only that old 1950s study in which the cortisol was corrected.
So you think pregnenolone does have a direct effect on the pituitary?
Yeah, the same way that any anti-stress substance, progesterone or sugar or aspirin, for example,
will stop the exaggerated pituitary activity. Okay.
Great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. Okay, this one's from Joshua, and he says, "My wife is 24
years old, experiencing low libido and hot flashes after having our second child. What
can be done to bring her sex drive and energy back?" Generally, thyroid is the thing, but
you have to check the whole nutritional pattern. Not getting enough calcium and vitamin D
interferes with your mitochondrial energy production, regardless of your thyroid status.
Drinking milk, taking vitamin D, drinking orange juice, and maybe supplementing
thyroid would be the usual thing to do. Thanks for that, Ray. Okay, Kana for 2,440 yen,
and she provides a sticker, and I can't really tell what's going on there. Thank you for that,
Kana. No question there. Okay, so Space99yak says, "Your thoughts on how to reverse the aging
process and increase healthspan. The basics and advanced stuff that you might not talk about as
much." Carbon dioxide, very important for stopping the stress and degenerative processes, and
vitamin D, calcium, and thyroid, and progesterone, part of their function is to normalize, optimize
the balance between carbon dioxide and lactic acid. I have a question about carbon dioxide.
You talk about it in your articles. It is a Lewis acid, and you also talk about partial oxidation,
putting the cell in an oxidized state. It has a structure similar to the quinones. It's much
simpler, but it does have those two carbonyl groups. I'm not aware of any direct reaction
in the organism where carbon dioxide actually directly takes an electron and becomes reduced
in the process. How does its electron-withdrawing function work in the organism?
The inductive effect, wherever it's attracted to an electron-rich area, those electrons
sort of bulge towards the Lewis acid that has an electron-attracting effect. The bulging of those
electrons by induction through the carbon chain reduces the electron availability two or three
carbons down the line. So the whole electronic quality of the whole protein molecule is affected
in a shift towards positivity or relative electron deficiency. When you're full of CO2,
all of your proteins have that shift. The flavonoids from orange juice and milk and lots of
fruits and vegetables, they can, by partial oxidation, like vitamin C inside the cell
becomes oxidized and then becomes an electron recipient. The flavonoids become similar electron
tractors and shift the whole structure of the cell into that relatively partial electron
deficient state. That affects, through the inductive effect, one protein has its influence
on surrounding proteins. So the whole system is a cooperative electron slightly deficient
condition, an acidic condition. In other words, the whole cell turns into an acid.
So a more specific example, let's say you have a molecule of NADH, the reduced version of NAD,
it's the electron carrier. So the presence of high amounts of carbon dioxide, would they be
able to directly oxidize NADH back into NAD or would they have a more indirect effect?
Indirect, shifting the whole system, activating the electron transport chain,
turning off lactic acid production, shifting the balances everywhere towards
reducing lactic acid and NADH and glutathione, shifting it towards the oxidized balance.
And the flavonoids, looking at their structure, they actually are capable of becoming fully
electron withdrawing agents, right? They will actually be able to oxidize the NADH back to NAD.
Yeah, that seems to be why things like fisetin have an anti-aging effect. They turn off the
inflammation and stress excess of electron production. And one of the ways you have to
think about it is that this isn't a static condition. It's a pressure of electrons
flowing. There are electrons in motion between the energy source and the electron consuming
cytochrome oxidase. So if you think of the Venturi effect in gas or water,
the pressure goes down as the speed of flow increases. So what thyroid and these
substances, peroxidative substances do is to accelerate the flow of electrons,
decreasing the risk of random lipid peroxidation by escaped electrons because as the flow increases
the pressure, the electronic pressure decreases. So the whole cell becomes shifted away from
electrons towards oxidation. So in theory, raising carbon dioxide and having the presence of these
direct electron withdrawing agents would be even more therapeutic?
Yeah. I don't think anyone knows what the upper limit of oxygen consumption is, but
health and longevity, as far as anyone has tested, will increase as that flow rate increases.
Have you seen that recent study on Fisetin being a very effective senolytic chemical?
Yeah, I think it's more than that. I think it can actually correct the inflammatory process and not
have to kill the cells. Do you think things like naringenin, apigenin, and other similar
flavonoids would have similar effects? Yeah, a lot of them have been tested, for example, for
preventing or treating radiation sickness, the ultimate in electron excess disease.
They're very powerful in protecting against or curing radiation injury.
So it sounds like a glass of orange juice and a little bit of vitamin B1 would be a
great combination as an anti-aging agent. Yeah, probably every few minutes a glass of orange
juice. Great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. Okay, Space99Yak. Or you know what? This is another one
about ivermectin. We kind of already talked about that, but they say, "Can ivermectin help protect
against the harms of the spike proteins modified by the AstraZeneca DNA vaccine by occupying spike
protein receptors?" I don't know if that connects between ivermectin and the receptors.
We said earlier that was a risky substance, and so it's like combining
two risky substances together, basically. I think a safer method would be trying to
raise the levels of the ACE2 enzyme because that's what the spike protein binds to,
if I'm not mistaken. Right. The medical establishment got it exactly backward
and the things that increase the ACE2 substance and the 1-7-antitensin fragment, which
is the result of ACE2 action, those are increasingly recognized as the therapeutic and
curative agents. And so everything that we know of as protective against COVID involves the increase
of the 1-7-antitensin and the ACE2 enzyme that produces it. Thanks for that. I found a very
interesting study showing that progesterone directly increases quite dramatically the levels
of ACE2 while at the same time lowering the amount of ACE. So it should have a double
punch effect, like protecting both from COVID and potentially the spike protein. Of course,
there are many other bad things in the vaccine, but I think progesterone seems promising based
on that study for protection against at least the virus. Yeah, and it's safe to use all the time
preventively. Do you think it may help? I mean, I know there are studies about progesterone and
influenza. Have you seen any studies about progesterone and other viral particles?
Yeah, it actually has some antiviral or anti-replication effects, stabilizing the cell
that makes the virus not have any support for replicating.
Thanks for that. Okay, Space 99 Yak says, "Any way of getting rid of acne scars?"
Depends on what the scar is like. If it's still inflamed, sort of like a slight keloid,
vitamin E and progesterone applied to it can shut off the production of inflammatory things like
estrogen and nitric oxide and restore the tissue to more or less normal,
so it loses the inflamed appearance. I have another thing to add. There's a human
study showing that a 4% niacinamide solution—separate studies, actually. One used 4%
niacinamide solution in water. The other one used 1% aspirin solution in water. Both of these help
to reduce the formation of scars, even in severe acne. I think combining them into one solution,
4% and 1% would probably work even better. Great stuff. Okay, this is from Ellie, and they say,
"Morning temps not budging, but day temps improves on thyroid. Why?"
So they're taking thyroid—go ahead. That's pretty good. While you're lying in bed,
hypothyroidism isn't doing so much damage, so the important thing is to keep the numbers
optimal and steady during the daytime. Thanks for that. Thanks, Ellie. Thanks, Ray.
Janet Pack, again, another—a lot of these people are chronic supporters of the show,
but she just sent a sticker for $50. Thank you so much, Janet. DBO514 for $10 says,
"Get yourself some gear, son." Thank you so much, DBO514. Kirk says, "What's the best strategy for
someone with diabetes with swollen purple legs and significant water retention?" Thank you all.
I would start with vitamin D, getting adequate calcium, normalizing thyroid, progesterone,
and pregnenolone, and then when you get your metabolism steady and some of the edema reduced,
then shifting the diet chronically, probably decreasing total protein somewhat to keep your
total fat intake lower. Any kind of reliance on fat for energy is going to interfere with your
sugar use, and the thyroid and calcium and vitamin D are going to help restore your ability to
oxidize glucose. Thanks, Kirk. Thanks, Ray. Teresa and Diana both
sent super chats, but no questions. Thank you, Diana. Thank you, Teresa. Another one from
SpaceX. They say, "Best med/supplements to increase mitochondria and mitochondrial function."
Carbon dioxide is essential and very powerful for that, and so all of the things that support
oxidative metabolism are going to shift you towards the better supply of carbon dioxide,
and the antitension inhibitors are starting to be recognized as supporting mitochondrial
energy production, reducing inflammation and degeneration.
So the boutique supplement of breathing into a bag, right?
Yeah. Okay. Kirk has another question here. He says, "My 67-year-old mother has one 1.2-centimeter
nodule on her thyroid. Her TSH is 2.5, free T4 1.0. However, her TPOAB is 32.9 IU/ML,
which is well beyond the 5.5 limit. What would you suggest to correct the nodule?" Thank you.
Which one was high? TPOAB, thyroid peroxidase. Is that what it is? TPOAB, 32.9.
Correcting, getting the TSH down to something like 0.4 would be tremendously helpful.
Thanks for that, Ray. Thanks, Kirk. Cornelius says, "Any thoughts on how to treat excess
saliva? It happens whenever I eat, I get massive excess saliva. Foods high in choline,
eggs, etc. are a lot worse, I think. It is a cholinergic crisis."
Often, getting your thyroid going helps to shift your balance towards sympathetic
adrenaline activity and suppress the parasympathetic.
Thanks for that, Cornelius. Thanks, Ray. Zachary says, "16-year-old, breast cancer,
received radiation, had a lump enectomy, had a couple lump scars since. Now 19,
what remedies would you recommend to help prevent it coming back? Lower estrogen/corazol?"
Sure. Thyroid, vitamin D, and aspirin are very powerful protectants against
estrogen and cancer development.
Thanks for that, Zachary. Thanks, Ray. Cornelius has another one. He says, "Does Ray have any
thoughts as to why taking supplemental T3 may cause a negative change in body odor?"
Negative being worsening? That's what I assume.
Yeah, it can increase your sweat production. And just taking one or two showers with 10% sulfur
soap can eliminate permanently a bad balance of bacteria on your skin and can make a difference in
the odor of your body, the sweat, for a long time.
Thanks for that, Ray. Thanks, Cornelius. Simon says, "What are your opinions on nicotine as a
pro-metabolic substance, and is there some overlap with nicotinamide?"
No, I don't think there's any overlap that I've ever run across.
What about you, George? Do you know of any overlap?
I don't know of any overlap. I think there's some evidence that nicotine in low-dose—well,
actually, there's some studies showing that it's a powerful aromatase inhibitor, and there's some
other components of tobacco leaves, such as cotinine, which is structurally similar to
nicotine, but they all seem to activate the adrenergic, the sympathetic system when overdone.
So the animal studies that I've seen that show protection for Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's
disease, heart disease, and cancers, they use the equivalent of one to two milligrams daily,
which is half a cigarette. And I think most people that use the nicotine gums or the patches, they
consume drastically more, and it very quickly becomes a stress agent. At least that's what I've
seen. On the excess saliva question, I should have mentioned that the things that promote
the sympathetic system, such as atropine or even the anticholinergic effects of ciproheptadine
and the antihistamines, are likely to help. Great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. Okay,
Victoria says, "How do I lengthen my menstrual cycle, both follicular and luteal phase? I'm
26 years old, and my cycle ranges from 23 to 29 days, with 26 being the average."
That seems close enough, but increasing the thyroid level will lower the estrogen,
and sometimes that will make it click into a very standard 28-day cycle. But I've never seen any bad
effects associated with a variation of only 26 to 29 days.
Great stuff. Thanks for that, Ray. Okay, our buddy Comrade James for $30,
you asked, but no question. Thank you, Comrade James. Francis Bacon Cheeseburger says,
"Recommendations for daily progesterone routine for a male in their 30s?"
If you don't have any symptoms, I think just a drop or two of progesterone or maybe 5 mg
has probably a protective general stamina increasing effect.
We get a lot of people saying they're taking, men taking 20, 30 mg, you know, like and they seem to
be doing really well on it, and that seems to be some, George and I are both constantly inundated
with that anecdote, so that is very interesting. Go ahead.
Yes, sometimes that's enough to shrink a man's penis temporarily, but for others,
because it inhibits the conversion of testosterone to estrogen, sometimes it's powerfully
libido promoting protestosterone, but it's very individual.
I get emails all the time from men over 50 saying that they're using 100 mg from progeste
and they recovered their morning erections, which they had lost like 20 years ago.
Very good.
Thanks for that, Ray, and thank you, Francis Bacon Cheeseburger. Okay,
I think that's the same question we already talked about with James. Zach says, "Do people
typically experience negative symptoms during the process of reducing endotoxin, cortisol,
serotonin, or estrogen, i.e. getting worse before they get better?"
I always doubted that's an old medical trick. I give you my personally compounded drug and
you get very sick. That's evidence that it's curing you. When you get sick after a vaccine,
that's evidence that it's working, they are saying now, but that's been a constant,
centuries-old ploy of the medical industry to say you have to get worse before you get better.
Yeah, when they cut, burn, or poison you, you're going to get worse first.
Or at least they're saying, "Look, we actually gave you something that does have an effect,
it's not a placebo." Isn't there a name for this? I think it's called a Hertzheimer reaction?
Yeah, that's basically the same thing, a medical intention to defend the harm they do.
So the heroic therapy for cancer is basically an extreme version of that,
they kill you in order to save you. Yeah, the statistics show that the
survival rate has never been improved by surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy as a whole.
Individual studies are constantly showing it, but if you added up the thousands of individual
evidence of benefit, it would be very strange that on the whole population you see,
if anything, a slightly worsening of the outcome.
I'm just refreshing my page here so I can get more of the super chats. Who was the guy,
Harry Rubin, Henry Rubin, the guy that went across the world and he found that treating cancer was of
no value at all, at least by standard medical procedures?
Yeah, I was at a seminar, 1969 I think, a world conference on the immune system,
and he and a beginning Oregon instructor in biology was the only truth-oriented people there.
All of the big shots from around the world were there and they were all doing their phony thing,
and Harry Rubin and this young professor, no one listened to them very much, but
they actually had facts and supported evidence and interesting stories that
showed the falseness of what all the immunologists were doing.
Amazing. We have about 30 more minutes here, so we'll rush through these, not rush through,
we'll try to get through as many questions as possible. Ray, Pete, thank you so much for doing
this. I sincerely appreciate it. Georgie Dinkov, thank you so much for being my partner in crime
and always doing all of these and making the show what it is. Thank you to both of you guys. Thank
you for our amazing listenership, which is extremely dedicated and loyal and sincerely
appreciate all of you guys so much. Jordan for $5, no message. Thank you so much, Jordan.
Elliot Cactus says, "How is THC and CBD understood in the bioenergetic view of health? Any
recommendations, dietary supplements/drugs/lifestyle for regular marijuana users?"
Oh, THC, was that the question?
Yeah, how is THC and CBD understood in a bioenergetic view?
I've been looking for the real beneficial effects, and it's always very ambiguous as far as I can
see. It is sedative and in some circumstances anti-inflammatory, but not always. And for many
years, I haven't been able to resolve the ambiguity to have a definite opinion.
Thanks for that. Thank you, Elliot.
One more thing for me to add. A study from 2017 came out, demonstrated that pregnenolone can
antagonize most of the intoxicating effects of marijuana, which is probably not what people are
looking for. They're trying to get high on it. But also animal studies subsequently showed that
it can protect from some of the anti-androgenic effects and estrogenic effects of marijuana as
well. So I guess if somebody's using heavily marijuana and wants to continue to use it, which
I don't think is a good idea, but if that's their thing, the human equivalent of about 30 to 50
milligrams of pregnenolone based on the mouse study seems to be able to block most of the
negative effects and some of the positive if sedation is your thing.
Thanks for that, guys. Appreciate it. Okay, David Boye for 499. Thank you. No message. Thank you,
David. Jordan, okay, this might have been his question. He says, "Preparing for dark days
ahead, what supplements should my wife and I have on hand and how do you recommend storing
us dogs, chickens living in MN?" Is that in Minnesota? Minnesota. Yeah.
Dark days in what sense? IE, cyber attacks, BLM infiltration in your home.
I guess all the things we're chronically talking about. Food chain. Yeah, food chain disruptions
and things like that. Having some stable calorie supplies and some protein,
if the crisis comes, you're going to want to share your supplies with the people who didn't stock up.
The quantity that you put away should be economical and long-lasting. We happen to have
a barrel or two of coconut oil and it's always good to have a few 20-pound bags of sugar
and maybe 40 pounds of gelatin powder on hand. Great stuff. Great suggestions. KBP.
Quick question about the food. Ray, have you seen that Walmart sells this thing called
Astronaut Food Supply? They're basically commercializing what NASA did in the '70s.
Basically, it's powdered eggs, dehydrated milk, sugar. I think they have some kind of a starch,
which I don't remember what the source of that was. Basically, they claim it's a complete diet
that can last for a century at room temperature. They're selling three-month, six-month,
12-month supplies. Do you think there's any value in getting those dehydrated eggs and milk,
or do you think it's dangerous? I've always wanted to have a good supply of powdered milk on hand,
but I've been having trouble finding out exactly how they prepare the particles that don't clump.
I've been afraid that they're using nanoparticles as anti-clumping agents.
For the present, I would not rely too heavily on that.
What about evaporated/condensed milk, which is sold in cans? You're basically getting the
equivalent of a gallon of milk in a small can? Yeah, I think that's good to have. The can
might eventually deteriorate, but it'll last quite a while. Maybe some canned sardines.
Great stuff. Thanks for that. KBB for $9.99, no message. Thank you so much, KBB.
New Health again says, "I seem to get a lump in my throat feeling and itchy spots/hives on my body
from Sinomel/Sinoplus. Any solutions?"
How fast was it taken? That's sometimes the problem. If you try to correct the problem
in just a few days or a week, that can cause the gland to shrink so much that you get discomfort
in your throat. Interesting. We talked about it a little bit earlier. I think this is probably
worth clarifying. How much do you think is too much at one time with food?
For a T3? Yeah, T3.
With a meal, 10 micrograms is probably the maximum that you want. Otherwise, it shouldn't be over 5
micrograms at a time. The meal will spread it out quite a bit and make it a steadier supply.
And last question for me, would you feel confident swallowing that tablet that it
would dissolve in the stomach or would you chew it?
Oh, I always chew. And the tablet helps you know somewhat what it's made of.
Great stuff. Is there any benefit in taking thyroid with fat, long-chain fats, in order to
go through the lymphatic system instead of mostly going to the liver?
I think as it digests, it's going to distribute itself. The amino acids that are more
hydrophobic might get taken up in the chylomicrons.
Great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. Okay, Tom says, "I've had numerous people note that
the development of varicose veins with pregnenolone and progesterone use."
Please could Ray comment on this? Thanks all.
I would question the quality of the supplement used first
because their biological functions are just the opposite. I've seen horribly bulging veins
normalize in an hour with a big dose of progesterone and more slowly with many big doses
of pregnenolone. I think someone who got bad products reported that and started people
thinking about it. If they don't get immediate improvement, they think they might be getting
worse. I wanted to add something to that. It's very important to make the distinction between
varicose veins and more well-defined veins. Sometimes people, when they have edema,
you can't even see the veins, even the contours on their hand or their legs. When they take
progesterone or pregnenolone, the edema rapidly decreases and then the veins become more visible.
That's not the same as varicose veins. I've never seen a person develop varicose veins from
pregnenolone or progesterone. The effect when you get enough is exactly the opposite.
For example, a big vein known to be so bulging that it can't possibly have any valve action,
with a very big dose of progesterone, the muscle can be activated to the point that the vein narrows
and the flaps of the valve on each side of the vein can then reach each other and close off the flow.
What would you consider a big dose in that context?
It depends on how high your estrogen is. If a person has very high estrogen, it might take
400 milligrams of progesterone, but that amount would knock some people out.
We're talking orally, right?
Yeah.
Okay. Do you think there's any benefit in taking a lower dose orally to avoid the sedation and
rubbing the other half on the actual vein?
Yeah. Putting it topically while taking a moderate dose is probably the best approach.
Great stuff. Okay. Gaza Mungo says, "Any critique on the croissant diet? Claims
SCD1 causes obesity and sugar raises that. It's a low PUFA, super high saturated fat diet."
Whose diet? What diet?
There was a study showing eating a ton of French croissants, which basically were baked with
almost fully saturated fat, but also, of course, a lot of starch in them,
led to a drastic weight loss and improvement in health.
The sucrose itself, some experiments show that you can increase the metabolic rate by 20%
just with sucrose. When you do it just right, sugar is a very powerful weight loss
instrument.
Great stuff. Thanks for that, Ray. Okay. We're heading to the end of our time here,
but I'll keep reading these. KT has no message. Thank you so much, KT, for your donation.
Yodi the Wodol says, "Alcohol in terms of capitalizing on the social
libidinal economy. I recently realized I wasn't drinking enough. What amount is best for
lipofuscin?" I wasn't drinking enough. That's great.
Vitamin E is known to be fairly effective at clearing up lipofuscin. Progesterone is effective,
and the amount of alcohol that can clear it up is very small. Something like a gram or two a day
is enough to have a helpful effect on lipofuscin.
Okay. Space99Yak again says, "Georgie said the outer layer of the adrenal gland
atrophy. Is there any way to reverse that if that happens to someone, and any way of knowing if it
has?" So, go ahead. Pregnenolone and progesterone both help to protect the adrenals so they can
regenerate. What I meant by that comment was that with aging, the layer that produces DHEA
and pregnenolone tends to atrophy, and then the only one that remains is the cortisol-producing
one. Ray, what was that guy? He has a series of excellent papers on this subject. I think Parker.
Do you know who I'm talking about? He studied this in depth.
No. It doesn't ring a bell. No worries. Okay. Last few questions here. Spencer says, "30 male,
low total cholesterol, 116 to 119, and low DHEA for the last 10 years. Got the cholesterol up to
166, cutting starch, using the carrot salad, increasing sugar, fructose, and calcium. Have
all hypo symptoms, but my temps and pulses are normal. Any advice why? Not on any thyroid."
What kind of symptoms are hyper? I'm not sure what that means.
Maybe I misspoke. He said hypo. So, I think this person had gynecomastia. I think he had
thinning hair, and I think he had a kind of classical—I
can't remember, maybe constipation as well, but kind of like classical types of hypo symptoms.
And temperature was normalized? I think he was reading them on a—they were higher,
like through the day, but in general, I think this person felt terrible.
The checking for anything pro-inflammatory in the diet would be a first step to see if
inflammation was interfering with their function. Wouldn't sometimes very high cortisol and
serotonin produce like a high body temperature at the expense of destroying the muscles and
everything else? Yeah. The stress hormones generally rise when your thyroid is low, and
it takes quite a while when you're under stress to adapt fully to the thyroid supplement. So,
Bruno Barnes, over his career, learned that it was best to aim for three or four months
for full correction with thyroid, and people got so impatient, they think of correcting efficiency
as sort of a matter of a day or two, but it really—since the whole system has to evolve
in a different direction under the better energy supply, you should look at the time scale of
something like three months. Yeah, I think he has a whole section on that in his book, like
what to expect and when, and when changes will occur and when they won't. Great stuff.
Okay, Andrew Gassile says, "Thank you. Tyromax is the bomb. I can sweat again." Thanks, Andrew.
Oscar Gomez for $5 but no message. Thank you, Oscar. MercyMe for $9.99 but no message. Thank
you, MercyMe. Ben says, "Take more of my money." Thanks, Ben. Carlos Rangel for just a sticker
but no message. Thank you, Carlos. Karlyn Brooks for $25 but no message. Thank you so much, Karlyn.
And let me just refresh this page really quick, and while I'm doing that, Ray, what are you working
on right now? I'm not working on anything but thinking about some of the old themes,
giving them a new perspective. Atherosclerosis and estrogen, for example,
something related to that is going to be my next newsletter.
Speaking of the older views, since Metchikoff was an embryologist, do you know of any field
in medicine or science in general that's still retaining some of those views and teaching them
to the younger generations? No, they were all effectively erased from the profession
by the mid-1950s, and so a few of the very young people are starting to look around
and might be hope for the future. I can't believe this. We're probably going to get through the
questions here. So guys, we have 187 people watching. Please give this episode a like. I
know it's arbitrary but it really helps with the show. Again, thank you to Ray for sitting here and
being barraged by questions for two hours. Sincerely appreciate it. Thank you, Georgie Dinkov,
again, my partner in crime, making this all possible. So there's just a few more questions.
Maybe we can get through these and just call it a night. Okay, so I mentioned Karlin. This one's
a scout, and they say, "Do you think magnetofection could have been added to the COVID vaccine to
facilitate the mRNA getting into the cell? Could that explain all the magnetic videos on the
internet?" I don't think they had to add anything. The naked nucleic acids have no problem getting
into cells. I think they were calling the lipid coat a necessary way to get it in the cells,
but when they've compared lipid-encapsulated DNA molecules with free DNA, in some situations,
the free DNA works better than the lipid-encapsulated forms. I think the real
situation is likely to be that the so-called lipid carrier is really a powerful adjuvant,
a source of inflammation. Thanks for that. Another sticker from Fuhiha. Thank you so much for that.
Peggy—hey, Peggy—she says, "How to use progesterone to postpone menopause. Thank you."
Oh, just using it cyclically is the important thing so that your liver doesn't get in the habit
of excreting it too fast. You have to lay off for one or two weeks every month and stay on cycle
with it. I've mentioned before that I met a gynecologist who was in his 70s, and he had this
very young-looking wife. He said that I've been giving her progesterone every month for
20 years, and she's still menstruating at the age of 63.
That's amazing. Okay, this one's from Nancy. She just sends a sticker. Thank you so much, Nancy.
Space99yak again for—he says, "The benefits—talk about the benefits of allopregnanolone."
It's mostly what progesterone does. It's one of the important conversion products in the brain,
a neurosteroid. And so everything we think of progesterone doing to mood perception, stability,
stopping seizures, helping with psychosis, it's really partly the effect of the allopregnanolone.
Amazing. Thanks, Space99yak. Thank you, Ray. And the last—maybe we have three questions left.
This one's from Gregory, and—what is the time here? Okay.
Gregory says, "For the last few years, my father has developed excessively dry palms to the point
they crack and the flesh is exposed. Doctors don't know what the cause is and just prescribe
ointments. Any ideas?" Thank you, Ray. Check his thyroid. It's responsible for both sebum
and sweat production in the skin. If your thyroid is low, your skin
almost invariably gets dry. Okay, the absolute last two questions here,
then maybe we can talk about some cultural stuff, if you don't have to go, Ray. But this is from
Zach. He says, "How to tell sugar is converting into carbon dioxide versus lactic acid?"
You feel very good. And you might feel panic and anxiety to the extent that it's turning
to lactic acid. Thanks for that, Ray. Thank you, Zach. Okay,
last question here. Kirk, he says, "Hi, Ray. I think I have heard you mentioned in a talk that
1,000 calories a day while still getting all the RDA protein as well as for vitamins and minerals
is an effective short-term way to lose weight in the short term. Any truth to this?"
Yeah, it isn't good for your health, but if you have to lose weight, keeping the minerals
up is very important. Calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium are very protective against
too much of the stress reaction. I have a related question. They're now
starting human studies with the drug RU486, which you have an article about mentioning,
the drug, Ray. And it's basically, even though it's known as the abortion pill, it was developed
as a cortisol blocker. That was its original design and purpose. And now they're having
several clinical trials showing sustained, rapid and sustained weight loss by using anywhere between
300 to 600 milligrams of that thing daily. Do you think something similar can be achieved with
progesterone instead of messing with the diet and drastically reducing the calories?
Yeah, carefully adjusting your thyroid and progesterone and DHEA, pregnenolone, those
can sustain a very high metabolic rate, increased body temperature, so that you burn calories
much faster. And Piotr Bagniewski basically said, "How to burn fat while eating the Ray P inspired
diet, I gained 10 pounds." And so it kind of intersects with what we were just talking about.
What should be the focus if a person is gaining weight?
Not to eat so many calories first, and then to gradually shift towards a lower fat intake,
whatever keeps your temperature up without having an excess of calories.
Then as your temperature stays higher, you'll be burning more calories and
able to eat more and more, up to maybe 3000 calories a day for a sedentary person
without getting fat.
Thanks for that. And Goalie Ag doesn't have a question, but they donated $20. Thank you,
Goalie. And then Space Yak again donated more cash. Thank you so much, Space Yak. We're going
to call it there. Ray, I don't like keeping you more than two hours. Is there anything
specifically interesting that you feel like needs a spotlight shined on that's happened
through medical or cultural or anything like that? Or do you have to go and we can also just let you
go?
Well, more and more kids are dying right after getting vaccinated. So I think more people are
starting to think in terms of murder rather than coincidental deaths when they get sudden
swelling of the heart that kills them. I think the public is slowly starting to wake up.
Didn't the CDC like stealth edit their page or something and say that kids actually did not need
vaccine when they had been promoting the idea for a period of months or so?
Yeah, they said that very openly. And then the reaction from the press was such that they
erased it from their website. And someone who mentioned the original statement that kids
don't need the vaccination, his comment was censored as contrary to Facebook's policy.
So in effect, the World Health Organization was censored by Facebook.
And people might not tolerate kids dying as much as they would just older adults.
Yeah, everyone is fine with when 80 or 100 percent of the people in the
nursing home die right after getting vaccinated. But when a 13-year-old kid
dies suddenly three days after his second vaccination, people are starting to question
authority. And then this won't be surprising to you, but I did peruse a paper. It was something
like 84-year-old man autopsy after first Pfizer vaccine. And the gist of the paper was something
like all of his vital organs contained the RNA, the viral, the spike protein or something.
And so again, just more confirmation of everything you've been saying since
March of 2020 that this whole thing is a total charade and it's not localized and that it likely
killed this person like 18 days after. And I guess this was like a landmark because it
was the first autopsy of somebody who'd been vaccinated. Yeah. And people should keep
remembering that influenza was effectively wiped out by the surge in so-called COVID deaths,
meaning that the total pneumonia deaths didn't change.
Have you seen some of the new proposals in Congress and Senate to break up and rein in
big tech? Do you think there's any honesty to these efforts or do you think it's all a game?
To rein in what?
The big technology companies censoring people left and right and basically
destroying society as we know it.
It's hard to imagine that person surviving a breakup of the computer industry and Facebook
and Amazon. That's such a totalitarian system. I doubt that she's going to be able to
accomplish anything.
Basically, the empire really depends on its survival on the big tech complex. So,
any attempt to subvert that will probably be met with brutality.
I would guess so.
And then last question, any thoughts on impending cyber attack? The cyber polygon,
the World Economic Forum, it's going to happen next month and it's not rare for
these things to go live after a month or two. Is there anything you're doing, Ray?
How would you survive if infrastructure and things collapsed?
After a while, I'm sure I would end up in Mexico.
But you don't really depend on the internet to live a productive life, do you?
No, not at all.
So, it may be a blessing in disguise. You'll simply go back to pen and paper and calling
people on the phone and meeting them in person?
Yeah, sort of hoping that that will happen, actually.
Yeah, it'd be kind of counterintuitive for the system that sustains the ignorance to be
turned off. But some people are saying people would go psychotic within a week or two. Do
you think there's any truth to that?
No.
Well, unless you define psychotic as contact reality.
There may be a withdrawal period, a period of abstinence or something. But I also agree,
I think people will quickly discover how much they've been duped and how much they don't
want their internet connection back.
Yeah, including throwing away their cell phones.
Okay, great stuff. I won't hold you any a bit longer. Stay on the line. We'll just say
thank you again. So, Ray, thank you so much for doing this. Georgie, thank you so much.
And we have an amazing listenership and I'll stay up after this and I'll do timestamps
for all these questions and things and sincerely appreciate all the support. When you see us
again, I think we'll have a souped up system and it will be very nice and my computer won't
be overheating and on the verge of collapse every single time we do this. So, guys, thank
you so much. Special appreciation to Ray for just two hours answering questions. And Georgie,
thank you again. And thank you to our amazing listenership and audience. Have a safe weekend,
everybody. And we'll talk to you guys soon. Okay, take care. Bye, everyone.
(Music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]